---
layout: "virtualbox"
page_title: "Virtualbox: vm"
description: |
    Manages a Virtualbox VM
---

# virtualbox_vm

Creates and manages a Virtualbox VM

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "virtualbox_vm" "node" {
  count     = 2
  name      = format("node-%02d", count.index + 1)
  image     = "https://app.vagrantup.com/ubuntu/boxes/bionic64/versions/20180903.0.0/providers/virtualbox.box"
  cpus      = 2
  memory    = "512 mib"

  network_adapter {
    type           = "hostonly"
    host_interface = "vboxnet1"
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

- `name` - string, required: The name of the virtual machine.
- `image`, string, required: The place of the image file (archive or vagrant
  box).
  This can be a remote resource (http/https), or local location. (ex. [Ubuntu Virtualbox image](https://github.com/ccll/terraform-provider-virtualbox-images/releases))
- `url`, DEPRECATED - USE `image`, string, optional, default not set: The url
  for downloaded vagrant box from external resource. Overrides `image` if set.
- `cpus`, int, optional, default=2: The number of CPUs.
- `memory`, string, optional, default="512mib": The size of memory, allow human
  friendly units like 'MB', 'MiB'.
- `status`, string, optional, default="running": The status of the VM. This
  value will be updated at runtime to reflect the real status of the VM,
  and you can also specify it explicitly in config to manually control the
  status of the VM. This value defaults to 'running', so `terraform apply` will
  always try to keep the VM running if not specified otherwise. Allowed values:
  - `poweroff`,
  - `running`.
- `network_adapter`, list: The network adapters in the VM, you can have up to 4
  adapters.
  - `.#.type`, string, required: The type of the network, allowed values: `nat`,
    `bridged`, `hostonly`, `internal`, `generic`.
  - `.#.device`, string, optional, default="IntelPro1000MTServer": The model of
    the virtual hardware device, allowed values: `PCIII`, `FASTIII`,
    `IntelPro1000MTDesktop` `IntelPro1000TServer`, `IntelPro1000MTServer`, `VirtIO`.
  - `.#.host_interface`, string, optional: Some network type (hostonly,
    bridged, etc) must bind to a host interface to work properly, use this field
    to specify the name of the host interface you like to bind to (like 'en0',
    'eth1', 'wlan', etc). This should get an improvement, see [Issue 64](https://github.com/terra-farm/terraform-provider-virtualbox/issues/64).
  - `.#.status`, string, computed: The status of the network adapter, possible
    values: 'up', 'down'.
  - `.#.mac_address`, string, computed: The MAC address of the adapter, this is
    generated by VirtualBox.
  - `.#.ipv4_address`, string, computed: The IPv4 address assigned to the
    adapter.
  - `.#.ipv4_address_available`, string, computed: Wheather or not an IPv4
    address is actaully assigned to the adapter, possible values: "yes", "no".
- `optical_disks`, list: The iso image to attach.
